# honeypot
What is a honeypot? 
The functionality of honeypots is so diverse that it has been a challenge to define exactly what a honeypot is: honeypots serve many different purposes for different organizations. Generally, a honeypot is an information system resource whose value lies in unauthorized or illicit use of that resource. In fact, its value lies in its being misused The information system resource might be: 
A dedicated server A simulated system or state machine like deception tool kit
A service on a selected host, like Tiny Honeypot that listens to ports not in legitimate use
A virtual server, such as the original honeynet and most other honeypots 
A single file with special attributes which is sometimes called a honeytoken or any number of other possibilities 
The value in a honeypot is derived from the lack of any authorized activity to the resource. A honeypot resource is never meant for legitimate use; therefore, any use of the honeypot resource is illegitimate and accidental, or hostile in nature.  When most people hear the term honeypot, they think of a system that you un-patch, put on the Internet, and hope it gets broken into. Although this works well for pure research where a site does not have critical systems, it does not scale to a typical DMZ. You do not want your DMZ to be attacked or get compromised. If you have critical systems on your DMZ, you need to keep an attacker away. You do not want to draw them in with an un-patched system.
How do you use a honeypot?
In this case, you would use a honeypot to better understand what is happening on your key systems. A typical web server can get millions of hits a day. Attempting to identify the difference between legitimate connections and attackers is impossible. This is the case unless you have an easy way to discern attack traffic; thus, you have the second use of a honeypot. In this case, your honeypot is as a secure as your production web server and is put on the same network segment. Now, when worms and attackers hit, they attack both your honeypot and your legitimate web server. Because your honeypot has no legitimate uses you can quickly identify the attack traffic and use that information to build better defenses.
